---
sidebar_position: 0
---

# Installation

:::tip
First setup a traditional TypeScript application with `ts-node`
:::

## Installing Packages

We need to add decotix and prisma as a dev dependencies:

```shell
npm install -D decotix prisma
```

We also want `ts-node` to run our script that builds the schema (install this if you haven't already):

```shell
npm install -D ts-node
```

Now that prisma is installed, we can use the prisma cli to help us, by invoking it with `npx`:

```shell
npx prisma init
```

That should generate a `prisma` directory and a `.env` file on the root of your project.

The `prisma/schema.prisma` is the prisma schema file. This should look something like this:

```prisma
datasource db {
  url      = env("DATABASE_URL")
  provider = "postgresql"
}

generator client {
  provider = "prisma-client-js"
}
```

Now, **_delete the `prisma/schema.prisma` file (but keep the `prisma` directory)_**, the prisma schema will be generated by decotix to reflect your input with decorators.

## Building the Schema

We've setup decotix up, but now it's time to use it. To do this, we have to create a file that builds the schema for us:

**_`src/buildSchema.ts`_**:

```ts
import { buildSchema } from "decotix";
import { join } from "path";

buildSchema({
  input: [join(__dirname, "./models/*.*")],
  baseSchemas: [join(__dirname, "../base.prisma")],
  emitTo: join(__dirname, "../prisma/schema.prisma"),
});
```

:::tip The filename

Of course, you can name this file whatever you want, usually that would be `buildSchema.ts`.
However, depending on your use case (like when paired with [`type-graphql`](https://typegraphql.com/)), the name could
be confusing because you may mistake it for TypeGraphQL's own `buildSchema` function that builds
the GraphQL schema.
:::

Almost done! All that's left is to create the `package.json` scripts
This includes some scripts for prisma itself, and one for to build the prisma schema

**_`package.json`_**:

```json
{
  // ...
  "scripts": {
    "prisma:migrate": "prisma migrate",
    "prisma:push": "prisma db push",
    "prisma:generate": "prisma generate",
    "prisma:format": "prisma format",
    "decotix": "ts-node src/buildSchema"
  }
}
```

And that's it! You have decotix and prisma ready to use! [Get Started with decotix here](./get-started)!
